---
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
---

## Research Interests
- Computer Science: Large language models, Machine learning, Video LLMs, SLMs, Artificial intelligence, Computer vision
- Software Engineering: Data strucures and algorithms, Object-oriented programming, Design patterns, Distributed systems, Databases, and Cloud computing
- Mathematics: Topology, Game theory, Linear Algebra, and Discrete mathematics.
- Inter-disciplinary: Robotics, Human-Computer Interface, AI in drug discovery, Computation social science, Computational Biology, Binformatics, Personalized medicines, and Algorithmic Game theory.

## Current Projects

- **Reducing hallucination in terraform template generation**: One of the well known cons of Large language models is its tendency to hallucinate. While LLMs has been an impetus to the latest AI adoption surge, the adoption is heavily dependent on how well the hallucination/ errors are handled. Given that real world systems more often than not are predisposed to value a closer to deterministic response as opposed to a more probabilistic one. The evolutionary computation methods are employed to reduce hallucination in terraform template generation. We will be looking into different genetic algorithm methods by developing a custom fitness score, mutation rate and mortality rate. We will be comparing existing models along with a custom data set and delve into the pros and cons of this approach.
- **Reducing hallucination in structured outputs via Retrieval-Augmented Generation with higher synergy**: The drawback of Generative AI approach for text to low-code flow's generation at the enterprise level is the hallucinations and the trade off considerations between model size and performance. We will be delving into ways to create better synergy between Retriever and LLM through joint training or by improving model architecture. In addition, we will be looking at ways to optimize model size and performance.
- **Enhancing LLMs with Synthetic Data: Case Studies in Data Augmentation, Bias mitigation, and model robustness**: The rapid pace in Ai development through LLMs has largely been powered by availability of vast amounts of data. However, there are challenges in obtaining data pertaining to specific domains due to data regulations, data scarcity, et al. This paper explores the application of synthetic data generation to enhance LLMs by presenting detailed case studies on data augmentation in low-resource domains, bias mitigation, and robustness testing. These case studies highlight the potential of synthetic data not only as a stopgap solution for data scarcity but also as a tool to generate less biased and more reliable LLMs. The findings underscore the need for continued innovation in methodologies to generate synthetic data.
 
## Past Projects

- **SNP Detection in Liquid Biopsy**: In this work, we develop a machine learning model—specifically a Random Forest classifier—to distinguish genuine cancer-related variations in genomic reads from noise introduced by sequencing, alignment, or PCR errors. Traditional manual methods of refining variant calls are labor-intensive, prone to error, and rely heavily on read-level features alone. By incorporating base-specific attributes, our model assigns a probability score to each base at a given position (pileup column), enabling more accurate SNP calls with high specificity and sensitivity. This approach significantly reduces false positives and streamlines the variant-calling process compared to manual filters.

- **Resolution of River water allocation conflicts using game theory**: Amid looming global water shortages—where demand could outstrip supply by 40% by 2030—this project proposes a two-level game-theoretic model for sustainable distribution, applied to Bengaluru’s water crisis. In Level 1, central authorities allocate water among states, reaching a Nash equilibrium in cooperative or non-cooperative modes. In Level 2, environmental bodies, industries, citizens, and states react to these allocations, resulting in a system of partial differential equations that identify final equilibria. By employing both Nash Equilibrium and Shapley Value approaches, this framework balances stakeholder interests and guides more equitable, science-based water policies.

- **Optimal coalition structure problem with voting indices computation using an influence matrix**: This project tackles the optimal coalition structure problem—specifically focusing on critical coalitions needed to pass key bills in India’s parliament. By using a subset generator function and an influence matrix, we account for relationships among various political agents and compute their voting indices under different quotas. To scale efficiently for larger sets of agents, we introduce evolutionary algorithms, including genetic algorithms, to determine coalition configurations with minimal error. Balancing factors like mutation rate proves pivotal for convergence. Ultimately, this framework provides deeper insight into how coalitions might form or dissolve to pass (or block) legislation.
